# Rustls
Our goal is to build a safer TLS library that can largely replace OpenSSL over time. The headline features of the new library, Rustls, are performance and memory safety.

We are making great progress. The community is also growing rapidly, with new contributors showing up regularly and largely representing new consumers of Rustls.

  - We landed support for [Post-Quantum Key Exchange](https://www.memorysafety.org/blog/pq-key-exchange/). This will protect users of Rustls from adversaries who are looking to intercept encryption keys used in a TLS connection.
 
 # Rust for Linux
 
Our goal is to make Rust a supported second language for Linux kernel development, and to foster the creation of drivers and modules written in Rust.

The primary maintainer of Rust for Linux, Miguel Ojeda, has been working full time under contract with Prossimo since April of 2021.

  - Linux v6.9-rc1 got released, containing the [latest Rust pull
request](https://lore.kernel.org/lkml/20240309133817.335439-1-ojeda@kernel.org/):
Rust 1.76.0, `container_of!`, the beginning of the `time` module,
`CondVar::{notify_sync, wait_interruptible_timeout}()`,
`ForeignOwnable::try_from_foreign()`... This cycle also received,
through other trees, the merge of the Rust support for the arm64
architecture, the introduction of the first Rust kselftest and
improvements for the PHY Rust reference driver.

  - The kernel website now hosts the generated Rust code documentation
at [rust.docs.kernel.org](https://rust.docs.kernel.org/kernel/). It
will be officially announced soon, and it will include the all tagged
releases (i.e. from [v6.1](https://rust.docs.kernel.org/6.1/kernel/)
up to [v6.8](https://rust.docs.kernel.org/6.8/kernel/) at the time of
writing), as well as the latest next and rc tags (i.e. rolling docs).
This has been an often requested feature. The generation is handled
automatically in a periodic CI.

  - The [Nova](https://lore.kernel.org/rust-for-linux/Zfsj0_tb-0-tNrJy@cassiopeiae/)
project from Red Hat was announced, as well as work-in-progress Rust
bindings for [KMS +
RVKMS](https://lore.kernel.org/rust-for-linux/20240322221305.1403600-1-lyude@redhat.com/).

  - The project gained two more ["topic
branches"](https://rust-for-linux.com/branches#topic-branches):
`staging/rust-device` and `staging/dev` (an integration branch).

  - It seems likely we will be able to [drop the `alloc`
fork](https://lore.kernel.org/rust-for-linux/20240328013603.206764-1-wedsonaf@gmail.com/)
from the kernel source tree, greatly reducing the chances that a new
compiler release requires changes to the kernel. In turn, this will
get us closer to starting to support several compiler versions (and,
meanwhile, will make it easier to perform the upgrades of the
toolchain).
